Dear Editors,

charge transport in disordered organic semiconductors is a pivotal factor influencing the performance of optoelectronic devices, including organic light-emitting diodes, photovoltaic cells, transistors, and sensors. A material’s charge mobility is the quantity of interest used to characterize its performance. To optimize device performance, substantial efforts are directed towards enhancing charge mobility in accordance with the specific requirements of the application. This consideration encompasses various factors, such as the device architecture (including the size of material layers) and operating conditions (including charge carrier density or externally applied electric fields).  

As charge transport in such materials emerges as a sequence of fundamental bi-molecular charge transfer processes often referred to as hopping transport, modeling approaches [such as in e.g., Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation 7, 3353 (2011); Physical Review B 86, 184202 (2012), Physical Review Letters 109, 136401 (2012);  Multiscale Modeling & Simulation 12, 1108 (2014); Physical Review B 97, 075203 (2018)] that aim at quantitative predictions of transport properties are typically multiscale/multiphysics models. Their computational workflows often are based on density-functional theory (DFT) calculations, either for the direct evaluation of quantities determining transfer rates (reorganization energies or electronic coupling elements) or indirectly in the parametrization of classical or hybrid quantum-classical models. As such, the predictions made by multiscale models of charge transport depend on the choice of the exchange-correlation functional in the underlying (DFT) steps. It is, however, notoriously difficult to pick the ''correct'' or ''most suitable'' of the available functionals, and it was not been scrutinized in depth how this choice affects the predictions quantitatively of qualitatively. In turn, it is unclear what the intrinsic uncertainties are in ourcomes of the multiscale workflows stemming from the uncertainty of the input functional, potentially limiting the extent to which these models can be used in virtual material screening approaches.

In our submission "Uncertainty Quantification in Multiscale Models of Charge Transport in Organic Semiconductors: Influence of the Exhange-Correlation Functional" we present a systematic quantification of the uncertainties of the calculated charge transport properties. Our work builds first on a set of data obtained from explicit results of multiscale models based on the identical worklflow employing only different functionals. To keep the problem tractable, we focus on a given standard hybrid functional and systematically vary the factor of Hartree-Fock-like exchange in its definition. With the explicit data at hand, we extend the discussion via Monte-Carlo sampling of the high-dimensional uncertain quantities, allowing us to predict and analyze confidence intervals and sensitivities of the predictions. Overall, our work provides new insights into the predictive powers of multiscale models of charge transport.

We are convinced that our manuscript will be of high interest for the audience of Physical Review B.


Also on behalf of the co-authors,
Bjoern Baumeier

