Dear Dr. Gilmore,

Thank you for the review of our manuscript ''Uncertainty Quantification in 
Multiscale Models of Charge Transport in Organic Semiconductors: Influence 
of the Exchange-Correlation Functional''.

We thank the two referees for their detailed reports and the positive 
assessment with both agreeing that our findings are useful, to be of interest
for the field, convincing, and well written.

We are also grateful for the very constructive suggestions and 
a few minor points for clarification, which we have addressed in our revision. 

We are convinced that our manuscript will be acceptable for publication 
in its revised form.

For convenience, we add to this reply a version of 
the manuscript with changes indicated in blue.

On behalf of the co-authors,
Bjoern Baumeier

-------------------------

[Note: we have corrected the typos spotted by both reviewers and will not
comment on each of them explicitly below.]

Reviewer 1:
+++++++++++

> In this work, the authors attempt to quantify how the uncertainty in 
> the correct form of the exchange-correlation functional in DFT percolates 
> through to the results of multi-scale models of charge transport in organic
> semiconductors. They argue that although this uncertainty affects all the
> parameters inputted into the model of transport properties, uncertainty 
> in site energies dominates, suggesting that getting these correct is the 
> most important part of having a predictive model.
> The work is well written and thorough, with careful explanations of the 
> methods used. In many places the authors have identified potential concerns 
> with their approach, and carefully justified why these concerns are not 
> applicable in the current situation, giving confidence in their results. The
> results are certainly useful, both from a practical perspective by suggesting 
> parameters to focus on, but also from a more philosophical level, as a
> demonstration of the effect of the approximations inherent in DFT. They are 
> certain to be of interest to anyone modelling charge transport with DFT,
> and clearly within the scope of the field.
> However, there are two fundamental points the authors should clarify, as well as 
> some smaller issues. Once these are satisfactorily addressed, I would recommend
> publication of this work in Physics Review B.

We thank the reviewer for this positive assessment of our work.

> General point:
> 1. In pg. 1, paragraph 3, the authors argue that it is very difficult to map the many common
> exchange-correlation functionals onto some model parameter, as is required for this
> analysis. They therefore use the HF exchange fraction (α) as this model parameter. Whilst
> this does have the advantage of being a single parameter that can be varied to give a range
> of results, the authors do not really justify this choice beyond this. α is usually restricted to a
> set value for a given functional (e.g. PBE0 or B3LYP), meaning that intermediate α values are
> very rarely used. The authors should therefore justify why the results obtained from varying
> α are a good proxy the results obtained by varying the xc functional, which would be more
> typical. One way to do this might be to demonstrate that the range of results you obtain
> from the variation of α encompasses the range of results you obtain with common
> functionals (e.g. LDA, PBE, SCAN, PBE0, B3LYP, …).
> 2. Further to this, there are in fact continuous parameters controlling the xc functional that
> could have also served as a model parameter, e.g. the screening parameter in a screened
> hybrid functional such as HSE. The authors should therefore justify their choice of α as the
> model parameter of choice.

We thank the reviewer for raising this important point of why we focus on the HF exchange
fraction as, as we wrote, "a proxy for uncertainties in the choice of DFT functionals". We 
see that the two points made above revolve around this question and address both at the same 
time. Indeed, there are a multitude of different parameters used in the definitions of the zoo
of possible exchange-correlation functionals that could in principle be used in a UQ study like
the one in our manuscript. However, when we consider the dependence of simulated time-of-flight 
results for a set of typical hybrid and meta-GGA functionals (PBE, B3LYP, PBE0, BHLYP, M06L, TPSS),
we find that among that hybrid functional, the ToF varies between 10^-9 to 10^-7 s, whereas with 
meta-GGAs we find variations of around 30% ''only'' in comparison. Based on this data, we made
the informed decision to focus on the biggest contribution to the uncertainty, the HF exchange weight.
To avoid additional noise in the uncertainty from different parameters in the rest of the functional
definitions, we further decided to focus on PBE0 as the reference functional in which we vary the
HF weight. This gives a controllable parameter for a UQ study.
Note that the range of ToFs obtained from the explicit popular functionals agrees well with the 
range of ToF obtained with our chosen proxy, giving an additional a posteriori justification for
our model choice. 

In the revised manuscipt, we have added to the data obtained from the explicit functionals as
Table IV to the Appendix, and give a brief explanation of the choice of proxy in the Introduction. 
We also add a short comparision between the alpha-varied ToF and the explicit functional data in
Section III.D. 

> Smaller issues:
> 3. Pg. 3, para. 1. As far as I understand, after the MD is performed, individual molecules are
> then extracted from final configuration, and DFT calculations are performed on these
> isolated molecules to obtain the relevant parameters. This is not made clear in the text – the
> authors should clarify exactly what is included within the DFT calculations. They should also
> clarify if these calculations are performed in vacuo, or with some dielectric environment
> included.

It is correct that the DFT calculations that are used for the calcuations of the reorganization 
energy, the electronic coupling elements, and the internal energy contributions to the site
energies are performed on isolated molecules in vacuum, after their geometries have been extracted
from the MD configuration. Environment effects are included on the site energies via the microelectrostatic
model, which is parametrized also on the isolated DFT calculations. In the multiscale modeling of 
charge transport in organic semiconductors, this is a commonly used approach. 

We have clarified the extraction and post-processing of the molecular structures after MD, and which
properties are calculated in vacuum and which with the inclusion of environment effects via the 
microelectrostatic model thorughout the different parts of Section II of our revised manuscipt. 

> Pg. 3, para. 3. Can the authors justify the assumption that a single value of reorganisation
> energy is valid for all molecular pairs more strongly?

This assumption is also common in multiscale workflows to simulate charge transport in organic
semiconductors. In general, molecular conformations could be affected by the environment in the material, 
with largest impact on soft degrees of freedom, such as dihedrals connecting rigid pi-conjugated 
fragments with another. As geometry optimizations of a single molecule inside the environment is 
computationally difficult, previous work has considered post-optimization of the molecular 
geometries needed for the evaluation of the reorganization energies with constraints of the
soft dihedrals to the values they have in the MD structure. However, the effects on reorganization 
energy have been shown to be small, see e.g., [JCTC 7, 3335 (2011), Chem. Phys. Rev. 2, 031304 (2021)], 
and are therefore not considered in this work.

We have clarified this point in Section II.C of the revised manuscript.

> Pg. 4, para. 1. It is not clear how the projections onto the dimer eigenbasis (pij) are obtained
– the authors should clarify this.

We clarify in Section II.E that the projections are obtained in a joint atomic orbital basis 
(Gaussian-type orbitals) and refer the reader to reference 12 [PCCP 12, 11103 (2010)] for the
implementational details of the method.

> 7. Pg. 4, para. 2. The notation here is confusing, as pij is used for transition probability here, but
> it has already been used for a completely different property immediately above. The authors
> should consider changing the notation for one of these.

We thank the reviewer for this observation and have changed the notation of the projections 
accordingly to avoid confusion with the probabilities. 

> Pg. 5, para. 3. The section about the Chebyshev distance is slightly confusing and could
> benefit from rephrasing. The way the data is presented currently leaves open the suggestion
> (and could even be read to imply) that the same molecule has the largest Chebyshev
> distance for all values of α. I suspect this is not the desired message, and that the point is
> that we always have at least one molecule whose site energy has changed by >0.1 eV
> compared to α=0.25, but that molecule could be different in each case. If this is the case,
> this should be emphasised. One way to do this would be to compare each value of α against
> all other values, not just α=0.25 as a comparison.

We thank the reviewer for pointing out the ambiguity in the presentation of the Chebyshev
distance in Section III.B. It is indeed correct that this is not always the same molecule 
with the mentioned value. 

This point has been clarified in the revised version. 

> 11. Pg. 5, para. 6. I’m not sure what is meant by ‘the mostly on distribution-level observed
> variations’ – could this be rephrased?

We realize that this formulation was unclear. The intention was to say that we cannot draw 
any definite conclusions about how the choice of alpha affects the ToF or mobility
by considering the dependence of the individual properties (reorganization energy,
coupling elements, site energies) on alpha but have to perform the actual carrier
dyanamics simulations.

We have rephrased this in the revised version of the manucript for clarity.

> 12. Pg. 7, para. 2. How are the mean and variance of the normal distributions obtained –
> presumably from the values obtained from the 6 values of α? The text implies that a
> individual normal distribution is assumed for each individual site energy/coupling element +
> reorganisation energy – if so, are 6 data points really enough to obtain a reliable
> mean/variance?

FOR ALL:
Good point, here it seems so. [be more fancy about it]


> 14. Pg. 9, para. 2. The distributions shown in Fig. 7 now appear to be log-normal, rather than
> normal – can the authors comment on this, particularly in comparison to Fig. 6?

First, we would like to comment that the distributions shown in Fig.6 and Fig.7 show different
properties: Fig.6 shows the UQ results for the ToF in the purely diffusive regime (no applied 
external electric field) and different sources of uncertainty in the individual panels. Fig.7 
shows UQ results for the mobility in the drift-diffusion regime with an applied external field 
and sources of uncertainties in all parameters (reorganization energies, coupling elements, and
site energies). As such, they should at best be compared to panel (d) of Fig.6. In all cases, 
the distributions look log-normal rather than normal, so there is no discrepancy between the 
two figures. 


Reviewer 2:
+++++++++++

> In this work, Chen et al. performed a detailed analysis of multiscale
> modeling of charge transport in organic semiconductors. In the
> multiscale model, the molecular parameters including site energies,
> reorganization energy and intermolecular coupling, are determined
> based on DFT related simulations. And then, these molecular parameters
> are employed to simulate the Time-of-flight (Tof) and mobility in the
> mesoscale material morphology. Based on sensitivity analysis, they
> found that the site energy uncertainty dominates the variability of
> Tof and mobility, while the uncertainty of reorganization energy and
> intermolecular coupling displays a relatively minor effect. They
> pointed out that the weight factor in the Hartree-Fock exchange
> functional has a significant impact on the site energies and thus
> indicates non-negligible effects on charge transport. Their findings
> are quite useful in the multiscale modeling, which points out the key
> molecular parameters that need be determined accurately with extensive
> computational effort. Thus, this study is certainly important and of
> general interest in the community of organic semiconductors.
> Therefore, I would like to recommend this manuscript for publication.
> The authors should consider addressing the following comments.

We are grateful for the reviewer for the favorable comments on our work
and the positive recommendation.

> 1. In addition to the intermolecular distance, electronic coupling J
> also sensitively depends on the structural orientation of two
> molecules of the dimer. It is not clear whether the authors have
> considered this effect in the calculation of variability of electronic
> coupling.

We would like to clarify that in the whole work we present in our manucript, 
the structural details are fixed and the same for all investigations of the
uncertainty as they pertain to the DFT-related steps in panel (b) of Fig.1.
This is the objective of our work.

In the calculations, explicit molecular conformations taken from the final MD
configuration are taken to determine the electronic coupling element. This way 
each molecular pair is characterized by different intermolecular distances and
orientations, which we obtain with full atomistic detail. We mention also in 
Section III.C that '' squared electronic coupling elements are found in a very
wide range [...] due to its exponential distance dependence and sensitivity 
to mutual orientation of the two involved molecules."

We note that different choices in the MD step of the overall workflow, such
as different force fields or different simulation protocols, can provide 
another source of uncertainty. While interesting, investigating this is 
outside the scope of our work.

> 2. Overall, the Tof is monotonically increased with increasing
> alpha_HFX except the value of 0.2. It seems that the reason is that
> alpha_HFX=0.2 yields a smaller variability of site energy. Can the
> authors explain this point?

It is indeed an interesting observation but we are not convinced that 
there is a straightforward explanation for this behavior. The problem is
on the level of the atomistic details and the multiscale factors than 
eventually determine the ToF highly non-linear. For instance, the argument
of the smaller variability of the site energies alone cannot hold, as then 
one would expect a similar reduction in ToF between alpha values 0.0 and 0.05,
cf. Fig.3(f) and Table II. We think there is an interplay of several factors 
here that is not obvious to disentangle. We also note that there is generally
no general theory that would support a stictly increasing ToF as alpha increases.